Ls(List Storage) - It is used to see everything in the current directory.
Ls -a  It shows you all the files(hidden files).
~ - always represents home folder
PWD(Print Working Directoty) - It tells you where exactly you are in the file system and gives you the full path.
cd .. is used to to move one level up.
pushd /etc - to move into the etc directory
popd is used to get back where i was.
locate command - to locate files
file .filename
sudo updatedb - to update the database
which command is used to find the other commands- to check if they are installed or not  and to check where they are located.Ex- which locate.
History - command is used to see all the commands that we have used in the terminal and it can show last 1000 commands.
whatis command is used to know the purpose of the command.Ex- what is locate
apropos - is used to find all the commands related to a particular command/ not sure which command to be used. Ex- apropos time.

----------------------------------------------------

mkdir directoryname - used to create a directory
touch filename1 filename2 - touch command is used to create files inside the directory
cp ~/ . filenameinotherdirectory - This command is used to copy the file from other directory to current directory.
cp filename filename.bak - This command is used to take a backup of the file.
cp filename filename.bak - This command is used to take backup of a file.
mv filename1 filename2 -This command is used to merge two files.
rm filename -This command is used to delete the file.
rm -r -This command removes directories and files.
rmdir directoryname - This command is used to delete directories.

cat filename -This command used to display the content in the file.
cat >> filename - This command is used to create a new file quicly and to enter the content. press ctrl+D to save it.
cat filename1 filename2 - This command is used to view the content in both the files.


more filename - This command is old and used to read the file using spacebar.Queue is used to prompt back.
less filename - This command is also sed to read the file ,and use queue to exit from less.
nano filename - This command is used to edit a file. Nano is a editot in Linux OS.

cat >> filename - redirection concept-Use this command to append content to a file without creating a newfile. ex- cat >> demo3.ext
nano demo3.ext to see the appended data.

cat > filename - This command is used to remove all the existing data  and we can enter the new data.

sudo -s -This command is used to activate the root user and will get disabled after sometime.
sudo updatedb - used to update database
su - name - This command is used to login to other user
chmod +x filename - This command is used to grant permission to ececute a file

rwx 
421

ctrl+c - to kill any process
killall firefox - to kill the application
ctrl+l -to clear the terminal
ctrl+shift+plus/- - to change the font size in the terminal




